Isaiah 49 and verse 25.
The Bible says, but thus saith the Lord, even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away.
And the prey of the terrible shall be delivered.
For I will contend with him that contends with you and I will save your children.
Our message this Sabbath is entitled, defeating the strong man.
Defeating the strong man.
Let's pray, Father God,
We thank you for this opportunity to study a word.
And I ask now, Lord, that you just make me a nail on the wall, a rusty, sorry nail, Lord.
And upon that nail, I ask that you hang a portrait of Jesus Christ.
There's no reason for me to be seen or heard today.
Lord, we want a word from the throne room of grace.
This is our prayer, and Jesus is precious in holy name.
Amen.
All right, so we're gonna be coming primarily from the book of Luke, the 11th chapter.
And it's an interesting place to jump in.
Jesus had just taught them how to pray.
And there's a parable about prayer and being persistent in prayer.
And after this part of Luke 11, this little verse of a story pops up.
Not a whole lot of detail but leads to some very powerful biblical teaching.
So Luke 11 and verse 14 says this.
And he, Jesus, was casting out a devil and it was dumb.
And it came to pass when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake and the people wondered.
And so this miracle happens where Jesus, and this is not the only time Jesus deals with someone who's dumb.
You remember Mark chapter nine, there's a little boy who's deaf and dumb.
Here he comes and he finds this, these casting out devils and the devil was dumb.
In American English, you say someone is dumb.
What you think is they're not intelligent.
It's not really what the word means.
It means that the person can't communicate.
That is the denotative meaning of the word.
And so Jesus comes and he cast the demon out.
The person begins to speak and everyone around is floored.
They can't believe it.
They've watched this person for years maybe, not be able to communicate.
And after one interaction with Christ, he whose tongue was locked is loosed.
And he's able to speak, but it causes a problem.
Look at verse 15.
But some of them said he casts out devils through Beelzebub, the chief of the devils.
And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven.
And so here, after the demon is cast out, they start saying, wait a minute, how's this guy really casting out these demons?
He's only casting out demons by the power of the prince of the demons, Beelzebub.
That doesn't really make a lot of sense, but they have to try and figure out, we're talking about this in prayer meeting, they have to try and figure out a way to protect their power
They're earning their income.
Remember, anyone who cast out demons in those days, they were exorcists, they actually charged money for it.
And so, when he does this, it rattles a lot of things for these people.
The Bible says in verse 16, that the others tempting him sought of him a sign from heaven.
Similar to what happens when Jesus is in the wilderness and the devil says, if you are the Son of God.
So, they're questioning him.
But Jesus knowing their thoughts and you would think if the man you were questioning his divinity and even his kind of righteousness could read your thoughts, you'd think that'd make a difference.
But he knowing their thoughts said unto them, every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation and a house divided against a house falls.
Jesus said, listen, if there's a kingdom and it starts to fight itself, it will collapse.
If there's a house and they fight themselves, it won't last.
He says, basically, what you're describing me doing makes no sense in the realm of spiritual warfare.
He gets even more pointed.
Verse 18, Jesus says, if Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand?
Because you say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub.
In other words,
Satan's kingdom has order to it.
Satan's kingdom works together to get an end.
He said, listen, if Satan is divided against himself, his kingdom can't stand.
There's a lesson for us as a church.
One of the most important things the church must have in the last days is unity.
Let me say it again.
Satan thrives in disunity.
He loves when the people of God fight each other because when we are in at war with one another, it gives the demons power to come in.
Now, I say this story all the time, but it's appropriate here.
When I was at Oakland, I took a class called dynamics of Christian living.
And E. E. Cleveland told us the story, and some of you know the great preacher E. E. Cleveland, if you haven't heard of him, look him up on YouTube.
You might find some of his old stuff, classic preacher, Alabama preacher.
And he told us the story of how while he was, while they were all at Oakwood, years before I got to Oakwood, a church in Nashville, Tennessee called to Huntsville, Alabama, where Oakwood is, and said, we need help send preachers the church has been possessed.
The church itself has been possessed by devils.
And so a bunch of the preachers, and I've heard other preachers who are alive at the time said that this is a true story.
A bunch of them drove from Huntsville to Nashville, only about an hour and a half, two hour drive, went up to Nashville.
E. E. Cleveland, as he was teaching us this in the class, said that when they walked into the church in Nashville, the pews were floating in the air.
He said the room, the church was ice cold.
He said, when they began to cast out demons, he said, the first person they got to, and they cast out the demon out of this person in the church, they asked the demon, they said, how is it that you have set up shop like this in an Adventist church?
The demon says, we have right to be here, because this church is fighting one with another.
He said, they cast out another demon.
They said, demon, what are you doing here?
And the demon said, my name is fame.
The demon said, I was there when Marilyn Monroe died.
And they said, what do you have to do with us demon?
And the demon says, I sing with the choir at Oakwood.
And all of the preachers, they were all shocked.
What do you mean?
The demon said, they sing for attention rather than to praise God.
So we join in and sing with them.
I want to submit to you as we go into 2026.
We are all in spiritual warfare.
I want you to understand the fact that you're sitting here now, the fact that you call yourself an Adventist, even if you are only marginally Adventist, even if you don't take this thing seriously, Satan has a mark on you to destroy you and your family.
Every single one of us, our children, our grandchildren, he wants to destroy us.
He is coming after us.
And sometimes we act as if the devil is playing around.
Jesus says it like this in verse 19.
And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out?
Probably the ones making money.
Therefore shall they be your judges.
And look at verse 20 that speaks to the power of Christ in spiritual warfare.
Look at what he says in verse 20.
Jesus says, but if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you.
Jesus says, I can cast out devils with a finger.
How much power does he have?
I want to submit to you today that sometimes we have given the devil too much credit and too much power.
I want to submit to you today that on your side is one who with his finger can cast out devils.
says if this is the case, the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Here's our verses for the sermon.
Here it is.
Luke 11 21 says, when a strong man armed keeps his palace, his goods are in peace.
But when a stronger than he shall come upon him and overcome him, he takes from him all his armor, wearing he trusted, and divides his spoils.
Let me break this down.
The strong man is the devil.
Say it again.
The strong man is Satan himself.
The Bible says the devil is armed.
He has weapons.
Not only does he have weapons, the Bible says he has armor.
This is the parable Jesus is giving.
But then in verse 22, Jesus says something profound.
The strong man is keeping his palace.
What is the palace?
The palace is the earth.
Here's the most frightening part.
If you are not in Christ, the palace is your mind.
The strong man, the devil has control over the earth, over the mind.
That's what the text is saying, but look at this verse 22.
But when a stronger than he shall come upon him and overcome him, he takes from him all his armor, wearing he trusted and divides his spoils.
Jesus is the stronger man.
Jesus is the one who can come in and overcome him.
And look at this and take his armor.
Take what the devil uses to bind us and to try and protect himself.
Luke 11, 23 says it like this.
That's why Jesus says, he that is not with me is against me.
And he that gathereth not with me scatters.
There's only two sides in the war.
You're either on the strong man side or you're on the stronger man side.
And I don't know about you, but just the way the thing is phrased, I want to be on the stronger man side.
So.
What are these weapons of the strong man?
As we go into a new year, let's look at what the devil is doing to try and deceive and to bind us.
Well, one of them is, one of the things to set us up before I get into the countdown is that we have to understand that we are each designed to create habits.
And the way that this happens is through one of the partner neurotransmitters that does that is the neurotransmitter acetylcholine.
And acetylcholine
is used to actually help do this.
And so there's a habit cycle.
You got a cue, right?
You got the acetylcholine release.
You get a reward for it.
And it just goes kind of around in a circle.
And so what happens is as you do something over and over and over again, the way God designed this is that if you do that, you get better and better and better at it.
And you get better at it because literally in your mind, pathways are created like grooves, Sister White describes it.
in your mind that makes it easier to do that thing over and over and over again.
And the way that this happens are these boutons.
You see these little things here?
The more you do it, the more of these boutons are formed.
This is an electron micrograph of the dendrite and you can see the bouton here.
So there's more acetylcholine available.
What that means is it just becomes natural.
This is why we say practice makes perfect.
This is why if you take a piano, especially when you're young and you start to play, if you play long enough on the piano, eventually you can almost play second nature.
Like you don't have to think about it a whole lot.
This is why when you look at sports, basketball and stuff, they go out there and they shoot all those shots.
They want it to be second nature.
It is a survival mechanism God gave to mankind that if you do something over and over again, you get better and better and better at it.
But the devil recognizes this as well.
So he knows that if you do something bad over and over and over again, it changes your brain, molds your mind to make doing what is wrong the default.
So habit formation is critical.
And we'll show you a little more on that in a second.
So interesting.
Everybody every year wants to break habit.
This is a bleak statistic.
Only 8% of people who make New Year's resolutions stick to them.
And those who don't usually abandon them after just one week.
So if you just wait till January 8th to go to the gym, the gym is going to be a lot more empty than if you go on January 2nd, right?
This is relevant because salvation happens in the mind.
In fact, it happens in the frontal lobe of the brain.
The front third of the brain.
33% of the human mind is frontal lobe.
And there's a prefrontal cortex that sits just behind the frontal bone.
And it is an important part of each one of us.
In fact, when I present on it fully, I talk about how if you lay out the body like the sanctuary,
The front of lobe is like the most holy place.
It's where sin is dealt with.
It's why Isaiah 118 says, come let us reason together says the Lord.
Though your sins be in scarlet, they shall be as wide as snow.
Because it's in this part of the brain that we reason, we have judgment that we make decisions that we plan, that we worship.
It all happens right here.
And I want to submit to you that the strong man wants to control or destroy that part of your brain.
His whole game, and it was interesting.
We as Adventists are often ridiculed for our lifestyle and the fact that there's so many things that we say we don't do and we historically haven't done.
But when you look at it from a neurophysiological standpoint, all of those things protect the frontal lobe.
Why is this so important?
Well, the Bible speaks to it.
I'll just give a couple of verses.
Revelation 7, 2 and 3 says, do not harm the earth
till we have sealed the servants of our God where?
On their foreheads, the seal of God goes here.
It goes where the frontal lobe is.
This is where your personality sits.
It's where your character sits.
That's where the seal of God goes, right?
And Revelation 14 and verse one makes it even more plain.
It says, And I looked and lo a lamb stood on the Mount Zion and with him a hundred and forty and four thousand having his father's name written where?
And in forehands, in the Bible, what does name represent?
Character.
In fact, one of the primary reasons to be a Christian is that it is the way you develop the character of Christ.
It is through the trials, tribulations, difficulties, the Bible studies, those deep prayer sessions that the mind is molded and changed.
And even though you may have had the habits of the old man,
My Bible promises you that you can have the mind of Christ Jesus.
Revelation 22 says it as well.
There should be no more curse.
But the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it and his servant shall serve him and they shall see his face and his name shall be in their foreheads.
Let me say it like this.
For your name to be written in the Lamb's book of life in heaven, God's name must be written in your forehead.
We must always be saying, how, Lord, can I be more like Jesus?
So just to show you an equation, God's name is his character, which is his law.
There are texts to tell you that the Bible says put his law in your forehead and it is his seal.
All of this comes together.
We as Christians are trying to have Christ in control of our mind.
Philippians 2 5 says, let this mind be in you, which was what?
Also in Christ Jesus.
This is the work, the personal work we do as Christians.
This is why you get up in the morning and have devotion.
Why you have family worship.
Why when you get angry, you stop and you pray over things.
Because you say, I don't want it to be my nature that comes out.
I want Christ's nature to come out.
And when you do that things change.
People see it.
Our first and most important purpose.
is to be like Christ to have his character.
That is what you're called to do.
And so some people say, well, there's no hope.
There's no way I can do it.
Let me tell you something.
He can do it.
Sister White says, of habit she says, it is by a repetition of acts that habits are established and character confirmed.
Thoughts make actions.
Actions make habits.
Habits become character.
As we look at this year, what Satan wants to do, and he may have done it to you all your life.
The strong man wants to keep you bound.
He wants you trapped by habits, trapped in addictions.
The strong man wants you in a place where you cannot do what God is calling you to do.
And he wants you to believe that his strength is the ultimate strength.
But I came to tell you today, there's a stronger man.
Ella White says, Christ's Object Lesson, page 331.
But Christ has given us no assurance that to attain perfection of character is an easy matter.
A noble all-around character is not inherited.
It does not come to us by accident.
A noble character is earned by individual effort through the merits and grace of Christ.
A character formed according to the divine likeness is the only treasure that we can take from this world to the next.
Oh, when you see these celebrities die and they leave millions and millions of dollars, somebody else is going to spend that money.
The only hope you have is that you have the character of Christ because that gets to go with you to glory.
Those who are under the instruction of Christ in this world will take every divine attainment with them to the heavenly mansions and in heaven we are to what?
Continually to improve.
How important then is the development of character in this life?
And I can tell you that one of the biggest challenges we have is that young people, there's a book out of Stanford, one of the sociologists at Stanford University wrote on purpose.
And he says, really, what is really messing up young people today isn't the stress of life, it's the lack of purpose.
Because without purpose, you can't develop character.
What are you developing a character for if you have no purpose?
God gives you purpose.
The world wants a strip you of purpose.
And when the world does that, pleasure becomes the highest, most important thing.
It's just feeling good that matters at that point.
So first Thessalonians five, six says, therefore let us not sleep as do others.
But let us do what?
Watch and be sober.
For they that sleep, sleep in the night, and they that be drunken are drunken in the night.
But look at what Peter Paul says here to the Thessalonians.
But let us who are of the day be sober,
putting on the breastplate of faith and love and for a helmet, the hope of salvation.
It is the hope of being saved.
The purpose that I want to be like Christ and I want when Jesus returns to be ready, that hope of salvation is like a helmet.
It protects this frontal lobe of the mind.
You live and behave differently.
I tell the story all the time that I was only in the second grade when I decided I wanted to be a physician, second grade.
I had a friend Tommy in class and he said, hey, great if we open up a practice one day.
That's a great idea.
So I started planning on being a doctor one day.
Do you know how many times I was in a situation in high school or out with my friends and somebody was smoking weed or drinking or something, and they tried to pass it to me.
And you know what protected me from ever trying it, besides the fact that I'm far more afraid of my mother than the police.
I said, I need my brain cells if I'm going to be a doctor.
The hope of being a physician one day made me say, nah man, I can't really get with this stuff.
The hope of our salvation is so much greater than that.
What are we not willing to sacrifice if it means we develop the character we can take with us to glory?
Habits, take your behavior.
from the frontal lobe where you're thinking about it and puts it in the subconscious mind.
That's what Satan wants you to do at bad habits.
Now, Ella White says this, once formed, habits become more and more firmly impressed upon the character.
The intellect is continually receiving its mold from opportunities and advantages ill or well improved.
Day by day, we form characters which place the students as well-disciplined soldiers under the banner of Prince Emmanuel
or rebels under the banner of the Prince of Darkness.
Which shall it be?
That's the question.
Which one will it be?
So, how does this strong man work to keep control?
How does he get us to get these habits that really destroy us?
How does he bind up the frontal lobe, the equivalent in the sanctuary of the most holy place?
How does the devil grab control of this so that you reject God in salvation?
Well, there's a few ways.
One of them is,
He indoctrinates via distraction.
Satan indoctrinates via distraction.
And he does this through the entertainment industry.
And if you look up the word entertainment is to enter, go into you, tame, to hold.
Ment is a state of mind.
So he goes into your mind and controls you.
That's what entertainment is designed to do.
And of course, ever since the invention of the television, the devil has been doing this.
I'll show you this in a second.
If in 2026,
We want the stronger man to deal with the strong man.
If we want to defeat the strong man, the enemy of our souls, we've got to be sure we are not feeding the strong man in our minds.
We also talk about feeding the flesh and feeding the spirit.
We've got to make sure we are feeding the spirit.
So what does happen when we watch television?
Let me show you.
So when you watch television, your brain waves decrease.
You go from beta waves down to alpha waves,
and theta waves.
Now, interesting enough, we'll talk about it more in a second.
These theta waves actually are where your spirituality is.
When you go into deep prayer or meditation on the Word of God, theta waves are what are actually working in your brain, right?
Alpha waves are kind of like a semi-hypnotic state.
So, when you turn on a television and you sit and watch something, your brain kind of drops from beta waves where you're more focused
or gamma waves where you're like really super focused, but it drops you down to your brain waves to a place where your mind is much more Impressible by what you're watching So if the devil wanted to slide in false doctrine false teaching the way he would do it is to simply get you to watch TV then then through that medium or through social media because it still screens through that and
He can now begin to change the way you think.
Let me give you examples.
Here's a good study.
I think this was from Boston University.
Babies in screen time, new research calls for caution.
And I see this, when I'm practicing, I see little, little babies come in and they got a big old iPad.
And the mother's like, he's sick.
You know, he can't do anything.
He's just on his iPad.
And you go to try and examine the child and take the iPad.
And man, let me tell you, it's like the rumble in the jungle.
The kids start arguing, fighting, throwing fits.
They're warning us that something's wrong with this.
In fact, the American Academy of Pediatrics used to say a child shouldn't look at a screen until after two years old.
I think they changed that now.
But look at what happens.
These are changes to brain electroencephalograms based on screen time.
So they looked at the babies first, I think when they were six, then again when they were 18 months old, and then they did the EEGs based on how much screen time they had.
Those who watched less than an hour a day
Their brain looked like this, but the more screen time they got, the more their brain was in a state where it was not able to focus.
So the question for the researchers was, if that happens at 18 months, what happens when they're nine years old and they're school age children?
Well, they follow the kids that long.
And it says when the children reach age nine, they underwent extensive neuropsychological testing.
The research team also had the children's parents and teachers complete surveys about them.
correlates with the EEGs, correlated with EEGs, Dr. Larner colleagues found that with every hour increase in average screen time, the children had more difficulties with attention and struggled more with executive functioning.
In other words,
If they were exposed to a lot of screen when they were babies, when they got to nine years old and needed to function in school, they were less able to learn, less able to focus.
In fact, many of these kids would then be taken to a doctor's office and be diagnosed with an attention deficit disorder.
And then if that persists, what happens?
What would that child get?
They'll get medicine, actually stimulants to keep them focused.
So here is one of the pathways as to how you get there.
But what I want to submit to you is the other problem is in this state your ability to critically think is reduced.
So you set the kids up, you send them off to school, they've been watching all this TV and when at the screen time they get to school whatever they are taught now they are also less able to process and that goes into their teenage years.
So you think about what is taught
in public schools and universities and think that many, because we think, well, it's just the schools, never thought that their minds have already been primed to not be able to push back on ideas that don't make sense or go against God.
And it starts young.
Let me show you.
This guy is Walt Disney.
Some of you may remember him.
He started Disneyland first out in California.
Look at what he says, let your heart guide you, it whispers, so listen closely.
And you can see Disney's theme, follow your heart, follow your heart, follow your heart.
So we take our kids, we sit them down in front of Disney, and we don't realize they're being taught something.
There's a recurring theme in the movies to follow your heart.
If you go back to when some of us were younger, they had, I used to watch this reruns of Bewitched, right?
And Casper the Friendly Ghost.
So here you are, child.
You can't critically think well.
Your brain has gone down into an alpha wave.
You're in a semi-hypnotic state.
You're learning in church that the living know that they should die, but the dead know not anything.
But when you sit and watch TV in your semi-hypnotized state, you're being taught the exact opposite.
Except the television over time is more effective in getting you to believe this.
Now, this is why
In America right now, I have articles that show people bragging that as churches are shutting in America, the number of wickens and witches is skyrocketing.
In fact, the fastest growing religion among young people in America is wicka and witchcraft.
America's whole spiritual climate is beginning to shift.
And it is moving American young people specifically away from organized religion to spiritualism.
And because of the way TV works,
The strong man can bond.
TV shows, a movie like Wicked for Good.
I have a whole thing I talk about this and how they basically flip the great controversy on its head in these movies.
And kids are growing up watching this.
Notice the one who was called a Wicked Witch is elevated up higher.
I mean, I could go into all of this stuff, but here's one from the movie Coco.
This guy's name is Ernesto de la Cruz, and this is what he says in the movie.
The rest of the world may follow the rules
but I must follow my heart.
You know who said that?
Satan said that in heaven.
He said, listen, the rules of God aren't fair.
I'm like, I can't keep, I got to do what I want to do.
And he convinced a third of the angels to follow him.
But should we follow our heart?
Jeremiah 17, nine says the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked.
Who can know it?
If you want you trust
Your feelings.
That's what people say now.
This is my truth.
This is what I want to do.
Once you do that, you allow the strong man not to just live in the palace.
You allow him to put on an alarm system and put bars on the window.
Second thing is music.
I don't get too much into music, but just to show you, music bypasses the frontal lobe.
When you sit and listen to a song, it actually bypass.
And I can tell you, this music, if anything almost moved me out of adventism, it was listening to music, hip hop and reggae and dance all reggae when I was younger.
It will move you away from God, right?
If music comes in at the auditory centers, the frontal lobe doesn't process the music the same way.
I had one pastor reach out to me.
A few years back, his daughter had begun to listen to someone named Billy Eilish.
I'd never heard of this person.
And he said, after my daughter started listening to this person, she was like a different person.
Then I started looking up the lyrics of this young lady, the Billie Eilish singer person.
And I was like, man, yeah, this person actually has songs where they basically encourage suicide.
Study Link's degrading music with teen sex.
They actually show you that if teenagers are listening to music that is
as high sexual content, we find that the more teens listen to music with degrading sexual content, the more likely they were to begin sexual activity by the time the follow-up survey.
That's on 1400 teenagers, and in just two years, you could find that.
We are told that by beholding, we become changed.
The strong man wants to bind your mind.
In 2026, make sure that what you're listening to gives the stronger man
access and not the strong man.
In 2020, I tell people now, you know, I listen to music in the car sometimes, but most of the time I've switched to where I just play the Bible in my car.
I put on a book of psalms and I just listen to it.
And I like a psalm.
I might listen, rewind and listen to it again.
Or I put on the great controversy or the desire of ages.
And I just listen to it.
Why?
Because I want my mind just being bathed with the things of God.
Because even just driving down the 35 freeway, there are billboards that can try and pull your mind away from God.
Businesses that try and pull your mind away from God.
We've got to bathe our minds in the things of God.
The second way.
The devil tries to get you is intoxicate to subjugate.
I talked about this at GYC, but this is where drugs and alcohol come in.
And I'm hearing more Adventists.
I even had somebody challenge me at GYC, a young person.
on the idea that we should not drink alcohol as Christians.
And came and brought, and the young lady said, in the verse in the Old Testament, I think it's in Proverbs, he says, give strong drink to the poor.
I said, no, that's not what the verse says.
It says, give strong drink to the perishing.
If you're perishing, drink it.
Are you perishing?
No, all right, then don't drink it.
Proverbs 23.31 says this.
We're talking about alcohol.
Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it gives his color in the cup, when it moves itself aright.
At the last it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder.
Verse 31 is describing the process of fermentation.
The Bible is actually saying once, and what happens if you study fermentation or you took chemistry classes, what happens is the great juice darkens first and because of the chemical reaction, carbon bubbles are released
So it actually moves in the glass.
It actually changes as it becomes fermented and becomes wine.
Solomon is describing that process.
And when he describes the process, he doesn't say, don't drink the wine.
He says, don't look at it.
So the question I ask young people is, if the Bible says this here, would Jesus later on take water and turn it into this kind of wine?
Absolutely not.
So we know that again, and I've been teased my whole life for not drinking.
You know, they call you all kinds of names when you don't drink.
And so we as Adventists have said you shouldn't drink.
People say, ah, these Adventists are too strict.
Look at what the World Health Organization says now.
No level of alcohol consumption is safe for our health.
None.
This is not an Adventist Christian organization.
This is the world saying, nope, it's not good for you.
No amount of alcohol is good for your health.
Global studies says,
This is from an article from one of the hospitals actually trained in Miami.
It says, even a single glass per week is sufficient to increase the risk for several types of cancer that are not related to the liver.
He echoes the results of the recent study about alcohol and cancer, which includes bear wine and liquor.
Basically, the data says, and this expert's saying it, there's no safe amount.
None.
And I've met Adventist wine connoisseurs.
Why are we giving instruction not to do this?
Because when you drink alcohol, it changes your mind.
And it allows the strong man to get the most control over you.
And it's not just alcohol, even caffeine.
I don't have time to get into that today.
I get into trouble preaching on caffeine nowadays.
I was preaching at one church, and somebody came up to me and said, they're not going to invite you back.
I said, why not?
He said, there's a coffee machine in the lobby.
But that's all right.
Truth is the truth.
Look at this.
Half a glass of wine every day increases breast cancer risk.
Just a half a glass.
And they tell the women, go home and have a glass of wine.
It's good for you.
No, what's good for you isn't the alcohol, it's the resveratrol.
It's all the antioxidants in the grapes.
It's not the alcohol that comes once it's fermented.
You can eat a bunch of grapes and get all the benefits without the risk of the alcohol.
So what happens?
What does a strong man do to your brain?
Drinking alcohol shrinks the brain tissue, right?
You can see this is a normal brain.
Is the alcoholic brain, you see the tissue damaged and lost?
Here's a good one, the brain of a normal elderly person, the brain of a person with Alzheimer's, the brain of a person with alcoholism.
Alcohol rots the brain.
That's what it does.
This is why we're instructed not to drink it.
The strong man wants control and young people, it's so much pressure on young people to drink alcohol.
I mean, even when you get your first job, to celebrate, they want to go out and they want to have a few drinks.
Stand strong like Daniel and the three Hebrew boys.
Don't let them get you because here's what happens.
The study finds alcohol dampens brain waves associated with decision-making but not motor control so it makes you make bad decisions.
There's a decrease in the theta waves when you drink alcohol and why is that relevant?
Theta waves is where spirituality is.
It actually changes.
I believe this is one of the reasons when you walk into a liquor store it says spirits sold here.
Because when you drink alcohol, you open your mind up to the spirits.
And some of you have seen, I've seen this, I've worked in an emergency room.
I've seen people normally won't do certain things.
They drink, they go out and fight, not in the emergency room.
Alcohol changes who you are.
It blocks, it blocks GABA, the neurotransmitter that actually causes you to be inhibited, to kind of like behave and to be in control.
Ellen White says this,
Health and Living page 114.
Look how spot on she is on this one.
The law authorizes the sale of liquor and then has to build prisons for the victims.
For nine-tenths of those who are taken to prison are those who have learned to drink.
Powerful statistics.
I said, is Ellen White right about this?
So I looked it up.
This is an infographic from a recent study.
80% of crimes that lead to incarceration involve drugs or alcohol.
Just as was said.
This is what the devil wants.
He wants to bind you.
And then it wasn't enough to have alcohol legal.
He legalized in many states now, 24 states I think now, marijuana is legalized.
And here's the problem with the legalization of marijuana.
And it was funny because they used the crutch of social justice.
This is how the devil is so smart.
And I twist people.
They said is the inner city black and brown kids are the ones getting arrested for marijuana.
We need to legalize it so that we take away, take that away and not have them going to jail for that.
And so what they did is they actually said, all right, we're going to legalize it.
Once they legalize it, giant corporations came in and they became the drug dealers.
And the giant corporations have made the marijuana so potent it is literally physically dangerous.
That happened like this.
They're making so much money on the marijuana.
It's probably the biggest business boom in the country in the last several years.
And so now you have this massively potent marijuana floating all over the United States.
And I'm going to show you, it is one of the most dangerous things that could ever happen.
But here's the irony.
They said they were protecting these kids.
And I can tell you where we moved from, I won't say the state.
It leaned kind of politically to the left.
And everybody wanted marijuana legalized.
All the people in the neighborhood, they voted to legalize marijuana.
Here's the irony.
We lived out in the suburbs in a nice neighborhood.
When it came time for them to place the dispensaries, the very people who voted to legalize marijuana said they would not want a dispensary in their town.
So where do you think all the dispensaries wound up?
Back in the very neighborhoods, they said they designed the change in policy to protect.
You see how the double works?
Here's what happened.
Chronic marijuana use, when these higher doses are found to correlate to greater incidents of psychosis and schizophrenia.
I am warning young people everywhere to go because a lot of times in the church you don't realize this thing is huge.
And they have it so they just vape it.
And that one, so when Bob Marley and Bob Dylan were smoking marijuana, some of y'all will remember them, from way back in the 60s and 70s, the tetrahydrocannibinoid, the THC content was about 3%.
Now, when they go to a dispensary, the THC content is 30% or more.
I found that some of the oils that they use to vape, it's 60 to 90%.
I mean, this is an experiment in human history.
No, the strands of marijuana, nothing has ever been this potent.
And what happens?
I've seen this happen to patients.
They smoke one joint, do one vape, and go into a psychotic break.
I tell a story all the time about a boy who was, when Colorado first legalized marijuana, he came from the Midwest, went to Colorado, went to Denver, went to a dispensary, bought a big marijuana brownie like this.
And the guy at the store told him, you can't eat but one fourth of it every time.
And he said, you got to space it out every eight to 10 hours, or it'll get too much for you.
But he was from, he was from the Midwest, he was so happy it was legal.
He ate the first fourth of it and nothing happened.
Of course, when you eat it, it takes longer to get the effect, smoking into the fast of it.
So what do you think he did?
He ate another quarter.
And an hour and a half later, he's like, I still don't feel much of anything.
So he ate another quarter.
By now, he's starting to kick in and he eats the final quarter.
He has a psychotic break and jumps from the window of his hotel to his death.
They tell you can't overdose on marijuana.
Yes, you can.
It's just not like other overdoses.
It's different.
Right?
So the content is shot way up.
This has changed everything.
And one of the reasons this is so important to understand, you see the levels of THC is after war and young people, I wish I didn't have to talk about this in Adventist churches, but you find more of us and our kids have mess with this stuff than you would want to believe.
So it's important to mention it.
The receptors, it disrupts the dopamine receptors in the THC.
So it sets you up.
That's why it's a gateway drug.
It makes you more sensitive to the dopaminergic effects of something like nicotine or cocaine.
And that's what ends up happening to really mess up the mind.
Here's what Peter says, 2 Peter 2, 19.
While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption, for of whom a man is overcome of the same as he brought in bondage.
They promise you liberty and what do you get?
Addiction.
That's what happens.
And what happens is the dopamine system in the brain down regulates.
Now it's difficult to feel just regular pleasure looking at a sunset, getting a good grade on an exam.
That is gone.
And the personnel is forever bound to want more and more and more stimulation.
And that's why the Bible says in Genesis 6 and verse 5 of the antediluvian world that the imagination of the thoughts of his heart
was only evil continually, because they kept trying to get more and more stimulus.
What Jesus does for us is deeper than that.
The saying that I learned at the Veterans Hospital is this, God made the human heart so big, only he can fill it.
If you try and fill a God-sized hole in your heart with alcohol or weed or whatever, you just become addicted to it.
In 2026, we want to fill the God-sized hole in our hearts with God.
Because the final way in these last days, or one of the last behavioral ways is this one.
It's sexual sin.
And unfortunately, we have an epidemic in Christianity in America.
70% of the men in one poll Christian posted about it, 70% of the men in churches, 40% of the women had looked at pornography in the recent month or whatever it was in the study.
What was frightening in the study is that more than half of the people who did
said they felt nothing wrong with doing it.
What happens when you watch pornography?
Talking about the strong man destroying the mind.
Here's a normal brain.
Here's a brain on heroin.
Here's a brain on pornography.
This is healthy volunteers.
This is a compulsive pornography user.
Nothing destroys marriages.
Young men have rebelled against pornography, 30s and 40s.
Come back, there's a whole group.
They call it a new drug and these young men have come out and said, because of the exposure to pornography they had in there, from when they were 11, 12, 13 years old, all the way growing up, now they are cursed to having unhappy marriages.
Because the fantasy world that their sexuality was developed in watching pornography can never be matched by a real person.
In fact, the studies say watching pornography rewires the brain to a more juvenile state.
When a man begins to watch pornography, he actually begins to devolve in his emotional maturity.
He begins to become more like a boy than like a man.
And Satan begins to bind that man.
And marriages are split and destroyed over this thing.
And of course, it means that there's more of this.
This is the hookup culture.
And he said, you know, the Journal of Sex Research is not a Christian journal, says.
The partners are related to when you do these hookups, you're sleeping around, you have greater symptoms of depression and anxiety, right?
Surveys among college students reveal widespread reports of negative emotional outcomes post hookup, including regret and diminished self-esteem.
The APA, the American Psychological Association Survey of 1,468 undergraduates, students found that 82.6% reported negative mental and emotional consequences after hookups.
including embarrassment, loss of respect, and difficulties with maintaining steady relationships.
Another study found that 78% of the women and what was shocking in this study is 72% of the men engaged in uncommitted sex experience regret afterward.
These encounters seem to correlate with heightened symptoms of depression and anxiety and this probably contributes to the mental health crisis we have in America and around the world today.
The strong man wants your mind.
And when he gets it, he does not leave you with joy.
He leaves you with misery.
So what people ask is, can the brain actually heal?
If your brain has been damaged by drugs, alcohol, or pornography, can the brain heal?
And the verse I always share with patients is this one, Joel 2.25.
It says, and I will restore to you the years that the locusts have eaten.
That's what the Bible says.
And now we have groundbreaking neuroscience study finds striking similarities with brains
corn addicted and drug addicted brains.
They're similar.
And what do we learn about drug addicted brains?
Here's a healthy control.
If they're abstinent from crystal methamphetamines for one month, the brain starts to heal.
After 14 months, look at that.
Of abstinence, the brain has healed.
Did you see that?
So somebody would think, well, you know, I damaged my brain too much with all that stuff.
There's no hope for me.
Let me tell you something.
The more you get good sleep, exercise,
All of that increases neuroplasticity, whole food, plant-based diet.
You can actually heal the mind.
As you focus on Christ, it heals the mind.
So I want to tell somebody today in 2026, you have not gone so far that God can't save you.
You can see, and there's all the drugs, and you can look across here and see, over time, if you just let God in,
And you stand on him, the brain heals from every type of drug here.
And I would throw in pornography, but they haven't done the studies on that yet.
Your brain can heal.
The stronger man can take back control and defeat the strong man.
How do we do this?
We talk about index cards as weapons, right?
So get index cards, old school index cards, write a Bible promise on one side, write one reason you want to quit whatever the habit is on the other side.
And this moves the decision from the automatic habit pathway
and addiction pathways to the frontal lobe where you can make decisions about it again.
So when you're tempted to drink that thing, or smoke that thing, or watch that thing, you pull out the card and you read the promise, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.
And it changes everything.
Ephesians 4, 22 through 24 says this.
That you put off concerning the former conversation the old man.
We've got to put off the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts.
and be renewed in the spirit of your mind and that you put on the new man which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness.
I came to tell you that the new man means you also get a new brain anatomy.
If you follow what God says your brain begins to heal and you can be restored and over time it can be more and more like you'd never involve yourself in those sins in the first place.
There's power in that.
Because the devil has one last great tool he tries to use, and that's shame.
If you've fallen into sin, if you used to be addicted to this or watch that, or you're stuck in these things, when you try to come out of it, what the devil does, the strong man says, he tries to apply shame.
Let me tell you, the God of heaven does not barter.
He does not work in shaming you.
He wants to save you.
The devil wants you ashamed.
The devil wants you to think back about your past.
He wants you to think about your weaknesses.
He wants you to think about your failures.
The devil wants you to do that.
But I came to tell you today that the secret to gaining victory over sin is to understand that God does not deal in shame.
When the prodigal comes back to the father, he gets the best robe.
When Adam and Eve sin in the garden, he comes and puts a coat on them.
I came to tell somebody today, don't live in the past.
That's where the strong man wants you.
John 3, 16 and 17 says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, and whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, that the world through him might be saved.
In 2026, note a character of God.
He wants you saved.
The stronger man wants you free.
Romans 8 once says, there is now therefore no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus.
who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
This year, let's walk after the Spirit.
Let's feed the Spirit and starve the flesh.
What we listen to, what we watch, let us change those things.
Hebrews 812 says, for I will be merciful to their unrighteousness and their sins and their iniquities.
God says, will I remember no more?
If God isn't going to remember it, why do you keep remembering it?
Michael 7, one of my favorite chapters of the Bible.
Michael 7, 18 and 19 says, who is a God like unto you that pardons iniquity and passes by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage.
He retains not his anger forever because he delights in mercy.
I love it.
Look at this.
He will turn again.
He will have compassion upon us.
He will subdue our iniquities.
In other words, the stronger man will defeat our fleshly tendencies.
He will subdue our iniquities and will cast all their sins.
Where does he cast the sin into the depths of the sea?
80% of the ocean floor has never been looked at, uncharted.
That's where your sin goes.
So guess what?
You don't need to go get a deep sea fishing boat and scuba gear and go out there looking for your past sin.
I came to tell you today, the stronger man has shown up.
And if you just allow the stronger man to do your work,
He forgets your past, you can forget it too.
Why?
Because shame actually corrodes the very part of us that believes we are capable of change.
The more the devil shames you, the more you believe you can't change.
Isaiah 49, 25, but thus say of the Lord, even the captains of the mighty shall be taken away and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered.
For I will contend with him that contends with us, that contends with you, and I will save your children."
The stronger man wants to fight for you and for your children.
Eloise is by a parable.
Christ seeks to make known the subtlety and deceptive working of Satan, who holds the bodies and minds of men by his power.
When a strong man armed keeps his palace, Christ says his goods are in peace.
But when he's stronger than he shall come upon him and overcome him, he takes from him all his armor, wearing he trusted, and divides his spoil.
Those who know not God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent are under the rule of the enemy.
In bondage to His will, He rules the mind and affections by His Spirit.
But Christ came into the world to dispute the claims of the enemy and Satan was made to understand the meaning of the promise given in Eden.
I will put end between the end of the woman and between your seed and her seed.
It shall bruise thy head and you shall bruise his heel.
A stronger than the strong man armed was on the field of battle.
That was Jesus when He came into the world.
One who could dispossess him of his weapons and limit his power.
That's who, in 2026, we are going to side with.
The stronger man.
We were up in Canada at Silver Hills recently, and one of the guys that was with us was giving us his testimony.
He was in a biking gang, and he was telling me how violent he used to be.
I was messing with him.
I was like, man, I thought you Canadians.
I thought y'all were nice people, man.
He's going to a bar and pick fights and beat people up and he did this for years.
And he said that he was raised in church and knew a bit about the Bible, but he wanted nothing to do with it.
So he joined this biker thing and he was doing crime for the biker gang and he was riding on one of the highways there in Canada on his bike and he went around a car and the car behind that car came around and he had a head on collision.
He broke almost all the bones in his upper body and his lower body.
He said he wound up in the hospital, suspended in mid air as they were trying to reset his bones.
And he said for months he could not even take care of his own bodily functions.
He said during that time he began to think about God and his life.
And miraculously he came across
Adventism and began to study the Bible and the woman that he was living with he said also wanted nothing to do with God And she's very upset that he got into this accident, but he started the Bible studies He said he came to a point where he started to question if God could forgive him of his sin
He says that was the big struggle as his body was healing.
His brain was healing as he was laid up for all these months.
And he started to say, would God forgive him with sin?
And he read a Bible verse that if you confess your sins, God is faithful and just.
He will forgive you of your sins.
And he said, I'm going to trust God.
And just a few weeks before we got there, he was baptized into the seventh day of the church.
The story is powerful, but you know what's more powerful?
He said the woman, his wife now, would not even listen to any of the Bibles.
There wasn't nothing to do with it.
But when we were there, she was ready for Bible study.
And you know what, did it?
She said to his change in character.
He said before he was cussing, yelling, screaming, throwing stuff around the house.
He said now he was doing the dishes.
He said before he was out all night, now?
He was at home on time and having worship.
He said she would walk in and see him agonizing with God, pleading with God, tears streaming down his face about what he used to do, asking God for forgiveness and asking God to make amends.
And she would see him doing this and the way he treated her changed.
He said, no Bible study could do that.
It was his change in character.
I'm telling you this to say this.
We have to let the stronger man win because the greatest sermon we're going to preach.
is the sermon of our life.
And if you want victory this year, it's a simple secret.
Morris Vendon has a book, a devotional faith that works.
And in faith that works, he talks about how you gain victory over sin.
He says you don't get it by looking at your past.
You don't get it by looking at your failures.
You don't get it by looking at your weaknesses.
In fact, the more you look at those things, by beholding you become, you just become, by beholding you become changed.
You just become more like yourself, more like your past.
The secret to gaining victory over sin is to look at Jesus.
Turn your eyes upon Jesus.
Look full in His wonderful face and the things of earth will grow strangely dim in the light of His glory and grace.
As my wife sings this song, you want 2026 to be a breakthrough year for you and your spiritual growth.
I want you to just stand with us as we as a church say together, we're going to turn our eyes upon Jesus and let the stronger man
have control in our lives.
Father God, we come to you in this, the year called 2026, knowing Lord that we are closer than ever to your soon return.
Father God, we want the strong man out.
We do not want the devil to have sway over us.
So Father God, help us to begin to push away those things that feed the flesh
causes Lord to turn our eyes away from you.
Instead, Father God, we want the stronger man.
We want Jesus Christ to come in.
We want him to have full control in our hearts and minds.
And Father God, we are praying today that Lord, we would turn our eyes upon Jesus and we would look full in his face.
Lord, help us to study the gospels, read the story of the crucifixion, realize what it costs for our salvation.
that Lord, we might live for you as pilgrims in this world, just passing through.
Help us, Father God, to prioritize this year the development of a Christian character, Christian children, Lord.
Bless each home, bless each marriage.
And Lord, as we've read in the scripture, we claim the promise that you will save our children.
This is our prayer in Jesus' precious and holy name.
Let the church say amen.
Amen.
This media was brought to you by Audioverse, a website dedicated to spreading God's word through free sermon audio and much more.
If you would like to know more about Audioverse, or if you would like to listen to more sermons, please visit www.audioverse.org.